Support installing OSSM Console without a Kiali server present ("lite mode") (#1002)
kiali/kiali.io: content/en/docs/OSSMC/users-guide.md

weight: 10
---

The OpenShift Service Mesh Console (OSSMC) is an extension to the OpenShift Console which provides visibility into your Service Mesh. With the OSSMC plugin installed, a new **Service Mesh** menu category is available in the navigation menu on the left side of the web console.

Which pages appear depends on whether a Kiali server is connected to the plugin:

* **With a connected Kiali server** — When a Kiali instance is connected and reachable, OSSMC provides the full Kiali-powered experience: dedicated list and detail pages for mesh components, plus **Service Mesh** tabs on OpenShift **Workloads**, **Services**, **Projects**, and **Istio configuration** detail pages. The features match those of the standalone Kiali Console, organized to integrate with the OpenShift Console.

> * **Without a connected Kiali server** — When no Kiali instance is connected (or Kiali is not reachable), OSSMC still provides **Istio control planes** and **Kiali instances** pages that list every Istio and Kiali CR on the cluster. These pages do not require a Kiali server and are especially useful for navigating many mesh instances from one console. See [Navigating Multiple Meshes](/docs/ossmc/navigating-multiple-meshes/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Without a connected Kiali server** — When no Kiali instance is connected (or Kiali is not reachable), OSSMC still provides **Istios** and **Kialis** pages that list every Istio and Kiali CR on the cluster. These pages do not require a Kiali server and are especially useful for navigating many mesh instances from one console. See [Navigating Multiple Meshes](/docs/ossmc/navigating-multiple-meshes/).
```

> The OSSMC plugin does not replace the standalone Kiali Console. After installing OSSMC, you can still access Kiali through its own route when a Kiali server is deployed. This User Guide discusses the extensions you see from within the OpenShift Console itself — primarily the Kiali-powered pages. For **Istio control planes** and **Kiali instances**, see [Navigating Multiple Meshes](/docs/ossmc/navigating-multiple-meshes/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OSSMC plugin does not replace the standalone Kiali Console. After installing OSSMC, you can still access Kiali through its own route when a Kiali server is deployed. This User Guide discusses the extensions you see from within the OpenShift Console itself — primarily the Kiali-powered pages. For **Istios** and **Kialis**, see [Navigating Multiple Meshes](/docs/ossmc/navigating-multiple-meshes/).
```

All of these pages are standalone routes within the OSSMC plugin, providing a consistent Kiali-powered experience without leaving the OpenShift Console context.

OSSMC connects to the connected Kiali instance through the plugin proxy configured on the OSSMConsole CR. **Service Mesh** tabs on workload, service, project, and Istio resource detail pages are also available when a Kiali server is connected.

> If OSSMC is configured to use a Kiali server but cannot connect to it, pages that require Kiali show a **Service Mesh is not configured** message with guidance to install and configure Kiali through the Kiali Operator. **Istio control planes** and **Kiali instances** remain available — see [Navigating Multiple Meshes](/docs/ossmc/navigating-multiple-meshes/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If OSSMC is configured to use a Kiali server but cannot connect to it, pages that require Kiali show a **Service Mesh is not configured** message with guidance to install and configure Kiali through the Kiali Operator. **Istios** and **Kialis** remain available — see [Navigating Multiple Meshes](/docs/ossmc/navigating-multiple-meshes/).
```

If a page that requires Kiali fails unexpectedly, OSSMC displays a **Service Mesh Console Unavailable** message instead of affecting the rest of the OpenShift Console. If you use the **Fleet Service Mesh** perspective and are not using those Kiali-backed pages on that cluster, you can ignore this message.

### Navigating Multiple Meshes with OSSMC

> **Istio control planes** and **Kiali instances** are always available in the Service Mesh menu. When a Kiali server is also connected, they appear at the bottom of the menu below a separator. Use them to browse every Istio and Kiali instance on the cluster and to connect or disconnect which Kiali server the plugin uses for observability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Istios** and **Kialis** are always available in the Service Mesh menu. When a Kiali server is also connected, they appear at the bottom of the menu below a separator. Use them to browse every Istio and Kiali instance on the cluster and to connect or disconnect which Kiali server the plugin uses for observability.
```
